tutorials/contributing.md, before:

# Contributing to mtools

Contributions to mtools are very welcome. Please check if the particular bug / issue has already been
reported on the [mtools issues](https://github.com/rueckstiess/mtools/issues?state=open) page and create
a new issue if it is not.

### Development Installation

You can install mtools in "development" version, which will not move it into the Python `site-packages` 
directory but keeps it in your local development directory instead. It will still install the script 
hooks so you will be able to use it like normal, both from Python and the command line. In addition,
you can modify the files directly in your local directory and test the changes right away.


Clone the repository
	
	cd /your/code/path
    git clone https://github.com/rueckstiess/mtools

Then change into the directory and install in "development" mode

	cd mtools
	sudo python setup.py develop


No changes to your `$PATH` and `$PYTHONPATH` environment variables are needed.



### Branching Model

mtools uses a simplified version of [this git branching model](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) 
by [@nvie](https://twitter.com/nvie).

The [master branch](https://github.com/rueckstiess/mtools) should only ever contain versioned releases. **Do not send
pull requests against the master branch.**

Development happens on the [develop branch](https://github.com/rueckstiess/mtools/tree/develop). To get a local `develop` 
branch you need to check out and track the remote `develop` branch:

    git checkout -b develop origin/develop

If you work on a bug or feature implementation you should create a feature/bugfix branch that forks off the develop branch:

    git -b bugfix-31 develop
    git -b feature-my-cool-thing develop

The naming is not that relevant, but it's good practice to start with `feature-` or `bugfix-` and include the issue number
in the branch name (if available).

When you're happy with your changes, raise a pull request against the upstream `develop` branch. Once the code is merged into 
the `develop` branch, you can delete your local feature/bugfix branch.

For now, mtools is not using hotfix or release branches mentioned in the nvie branching model. 


### Version Numbers

The versioning standard in mtools is pretty straight-forward. It follows a major.minor.micro version system. We decided to start
mtools at version 1.0.0  (it was already pretty stable and useable at that stage). Bugfixes and minor feature additions are released
as part of micro releases in roughly a two-week cycle:  1.0.0 --> 1.0.1 --> 1.0.2 --> ...

Minor releases will include more significant changes, including interface changes.  

I'm not sure yet what a major release constitutes :-)

The development version has the suffix `dev` attached. For example `1.0.1dev` is the development version leading up to `1.0.1` release.

Minor and major releases might have release candidates leading up to the final release. Those are marked with the suffix `rcX` where `X` 
is a number starting at 0. For example, version `1.2rc2` is the 3rd release candidate for upcoming release version `1.2`.

Github milestones are named with a prefix `v`, for example `v1.0.1`.

Commit message:

changed some wording in contributing instructions. Added rule about commit messages.

tutorials/contributing.md, after:

# Contributing to mtools

Contributions to mtools are very welcome. Please check if the particular bug / issue has already been
reported on the [mtools issues](https://github.com/rueckstiess/mtools/issues?state=open) page and create
a new issue if it doesn't exist yet.

### Development Installation

You can install mtools in "development" mode, which will not move it into the Python `site-packages` 
directory but keeps it in your local development directory instead. It will still install the necessary 
hooks so you will be able to use it like normal, both from Python and the command line. In addition,
you can modify the files directly in your local directory and test the changes right away.


Clone the repository
	
	cd /your/code/path
    git clone https://github.com/rueckstiess/mtools

Then change into the directory and install in "development" mode

	cd mtools
	sudo python setup.py develop


No changes to your `$PATH` and `$PYTHONPATH` environment variables are needed.



### Branching Model

mtools uses a simplified version of [this git branching model](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) 
by [@nvie](https://twitter.com/nvie).

The [master branch](https://github.com/rueckstiess/mtools) should only ever contain versioned releases. **Do not send
pull requests against the master branch.**

Development happens on the [develop branch](https://github.com/rueckstiess/mtools/tree/develop). To get a local `develop` 
branch you need to check out and track the remote `develop` branch:

    git checkout -b develop origin/develop

If you work on a bug or feature implementation you should create a feature/bugfix branch that forks off the `develop` branch:

    git -b bugfix-31 develop
    git -b feature-my-cool-thing develop

The naming is not that relevant, but it's good practice to start with `feature-` or `bugfix-` and include the issue number
in the branch name (if available).

Please use meaningful, descriptive git commit messages. A git commit with `asdf` or `changed stuff` will not go into the repository.

When you're happy with your changes, raise a pull request against the upstream `develop` branch. Once the code is merged into 
the `develop` branch, you can delete your local feature/bugfix branch.

For now, mtools is not using hotfix or release branches mentioned in the nvie branching model. 


### Version Numbers

The versioning standard in mtools is pretty straight-forward. It follows a major.minor.micro version system. We decided to start
mtools at version 1.0.0  (it was already pretty stable and useable at that stage). Bugfixes and minor feature additions are released
as part of micro releases in roughly a two-week cycle:  1.0.0 --> 1.0.1 --> 1.0.2 --> ...

Minor releases will include more significant changes, including interface changes.  

I'm not sure yet what a major release constitutes :-)

The development version has the suffix `dev` attached. For example `1.0.1dev` is the development version leading up to `1.0.1` release.

Minor and major releases might have release candidates leading up to the final release. Those are marked with the suffix `rcX` where `X` 
is a number starting at 0. For example, version `1.2rc2` is the 3rd release candidate for upcoming release version `1.2`.

Github milestones are named with a prefix `v`, for example `v1.0.1`.
